  When I think about where I was on May 4th, and really the first couple weeks of this course, and where I am now, I do feel a sense of accomplishment. I wanted to take this course because I wanted to push myself out of my comfort zone and explore new ways of experiencing and digesting history. I am that student who can bust out a paper the night before its due and I missed feeling challenged and I missed the feeling of experimenting and trying something new. I was excited but admittedly very anxious because not only was I looking at history in a different way, I was using technology that I had a limited or nonexistent grasp of. The first week though was a lot of fun for me because tools like Zotero have already become so useful for me. I used it to keep track of my sources and develop citations for a research paper I handed in a couple weeks ago. As someone who always writes citations at the end of writing a paper and instantly regrets it every time, Zotero is one of my favourite online tools I learned about in this course. 

  The weeks got more challenging though, and I doubted myself a lot. I think I really gained an appreciation though for the belief that if it doesn’t work in 30 minutes, it won’t work in two hours. Pretty much every exercise I tried did not work perfectly the first time, or often on the second try. I quickly learned the difference between pushing myself and forcing it. In week two, I had issues with the exercises and did try to google it, but unfortunately google tended to overcomplicate the issue, so I got over myself and went on to Discord. It was so refreshing to see everyone’s questions. Before I could even ask a question, there were messages from people with the same problem and suggestions from others that I was able to try out. I felt comfortable posing my own questions from then on because I knew we were all in the same boat one way or another, and whether it was Dr Graham who helped me, or a fellow classmate, I never felt dumb and was empowered to complete the exercises to the best of my ability and feel that sense of satisfaction that came with finally getting it. 

  As I mentioned, Zotero has already been a life changer for me, but I can see other tools having a real impact on future classes as well. Voyant and Storymap were two tools that stuck out for me because I can see them being useful in other classes. They were user friendly and honestly fun to play around and experiment with. I loved utilizing Voyant in the week six exercise because there were so many ways to use it and it allowed me to explore the language used in the trial accounts. I feel like I could have spent more time on all the exercises and wish I had time to look at the bonuses in more detail. However, when I think about where I was and where I am now, I do feel a strong sense of accomplishment. I pushed myself, but I knew when to ask for help and take a break. 

  If I had to give myself a letter grade I would say around B+/A-. I struggled to keep up with the work, but I do feel a sense of accomplishment and I know that I consistently made an effort each week to try the exercises and understand what I was doing. If I did not try most things in one week, I caught up in the next because I had a genuine interest in grasping the material. I loved the readings because they exposed me to various ways of looking at history while acknowledging the complexities that come with digitizing history. This class is so different from anything I have done before and I am genuinely glad that I took it because I know the tools I have learned will be valuable assets. Beyond the tools, I will also take away a strong appreciation for the work of digital historians and the incredibly unique perspective digital history can take on primary source documents. It is a lot of work, and I have gained a real respect for the process. 

