- I was really interested in Michelle Moravec's work. Her video was fascinating and such a good example of how digital history can be used to look at primary sources in efficient ways. I enjoyed watching the video because it was inspiring for the challange this week, which I admittedly a bit worried about doing. The visuals she used while discussing her work added so much depth to what she was talking about. I knew I wanted to use Voyant this week because I enjoyed playing around with the visuals it produces. 
- This week was challenging, but interesting as well. I pulled two trial accounts from the Old Bailey after exploring other sources that intrigued me like the Digital Transgender Archive. Ultimately, I chose the Old Bailey because of its relation to other material I have been studying and my ability to extract the info in API format. 
- Once I got the documents, I used Sublime and the REGEX techniques to clean it up and get it looking like something I could actually put into Voyant. Playing around with the trial accounts in Voyant was great because I focused on exploring the language being used. "Said" was always a common word because trials in the early 1800s depended almost entirely on witness testimonies or at least testimonies on the character of the defendant and victim. In one trial, the woman is sentenced to death for murder, while in the other she is sentenced to months of imprisonment and a fine for manslaughter. The second trial was much more complex because the victim consistently beat the defendant, who seemingly killed the victim in self-defence. I love using Voyant, so I knew I wanted to put the trials in there and see what I could get from them. 
- Finally, I decided to play around with Inkscape so I could present some of the info I found interesting from the trials and present a couple visuals I exported from Voyant. 
- I defintely agree with the fact that 80% of my time on this exercise was getting the information into some kind of shape. I would love to extract trials from later in the 1800s after huge criminal law reforms took place to see how defendants are sentenced and the trials operated. It took a while even with REGEX to figure out how to format the trial and make it simple (but still authentic) to use in Voyant. 
